---
title: "Lesson6 Tab1: Use KittyORM"
date: 2018-11-15T06:50:21+03:00
draft: false
layout: "lesson"
---

### Use KittyORM in your projects and leave your feedback!
It is very simple to make KittyORM even greater. Just use it in your projects and leave your feedback. Easy as a pie:

1. Visit KittyORM page located at [https://akaish.github.io/KittyOrmPages/](https://akaish.github.io/KittyOrmPages/) or KittyORM GitHub repository located at [https://github.com/akaish/KittyORM](https://github.com/akaish/KittyORM) to acquire instructions on configuring your project in order to use KittyORM.

2. Implement your business logic without messing with SQL and a lot of boiler plate code for database operations.

3. Leave your feedback, feature requests, questions or bug reports at **Issues** section of [KittyORM project GitHub repository](https://github.com/akaish/KittyORM/issues) or send it to <kittyorm@gmail.com> with subject contains `!feedback`, `!featurerequest`, `!question` or `!bugreport` (optional but it would be very nice).

### Are there any legal restrictions to use KittyORM in my project?
Yep, there are few restrictions right now. KittyORM licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. It is young ORM and written only by one author, I spent quite a lot of time to write it and not ready to share all rights to community. Right now you can freely use it in noncommercial purposes with giving appropriate credit and providing link to the license in your project. But you may not use KittyORM for commercial purposes or distribute derivatives of KittyORM.  

**Why KittyORM has NoDerivatives restriction?**  
This is done to prevent distribution of any ORM built with using KittyORM code as core code as standalone ORM. However, you are free to modify it to use it in any project that main functionality is not ORM and redistribute it in object form as part of your application. Good example - modifying KittyORM source code to apply database encryption with third-party library is OK.  

**Why KittyORM has NonCommercial restriction?**  
As mentioned earlier I've spent something about half a year of working on KittyORM and some time on KittyORM Demo and related documentstion, so it would be nice if it would bring some revenue. However, there are great chances to receive permit on commercial use of KittyORM even for free and you always can receive KittyORM under another license by request on paid base. Just contact me by email (<kittyorm@gmail.com>).



